---
title: Github Wikis
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Github Wikis

> >

One of the first and oldest way to publish content on Github is through the use of their Wiki. Now this at first might seem like a dated idea today, but Wikis are a simple collaborative way to edit simple websites. They do have a few advantages.

---

# GitHub Wikis

- Beside sites
- Simple editing
- Limited

> > Speaker Notes:

First is that Wikis exist in sort of a parallel universe beside your sites, so you can easily add one to a project without the need for additional files.

They require no knowledge of HTML and have a simple Graphical User Interface that you can use to edit content.

On the down side, they don't offer many opportunities for customization or design. You can add a sidebar and a footer, but not much else.

---

# Wiki Features

- Optional markdown
- Syntax highlighting
- Connected repo

> > Speaker Notes:

Wikis let you write their content in many formats, including markdown, which is popular, specially among developers.

It offers automatic syntax highlighting for code, and automatically understands different programming languages. It's a great place to store code snippets.

The Wiki lives within a separate repo that is connected to a current repository, which means that you can clone it and open it locally for faster editing.

Go to repo.new

Create a Wiki with the name publishing-wiki

Sample wiki based project for the course Publishing Apps and Sites with Github.

Add A Wiki

I've downloaded the folder with some files for you to get started, so make sure you check the video on working with the exercises.
