---
title: Basic Markdown
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Basic Markdown

> >

Although Wikis allow you to write and edit content in different formats, the default and most common option is Markdown.

---

# GitHub Wikis

- [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/) (GFM)
- GUI writes Markdown
- Extension to Markdown
- Not all GFM Features

> > Speaker Notes:

Although there are different versions of markdown, the one that GitHub uses is known as GFM, or Github Flavored Markdown. It's a strict superset of a version of markdown called Common Mark. You can learn everything about GFM using this link.

When you use the GUI, it writes the content in markdown and lets you preview what you've written.

GFM offers many extensions to markdown, the most popular are the ability to create tables and task lists and automatically link to files when using www, http, or https. It will also try to recognize emails.

Wikis also give you some, but not all HTML features, so although you can use simple tags like paragraphs, break and other simple tags, you can do complex things like add styles.

---

# Extensions

- Task lists: []
- Strikethrough: ~~
- Autolinks: http, www, emails
- [Tables](https://www.tablesgenerator.com/) | [Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=pharndt.vscode-markdown-table)

```md
| The   | Quick |
| ----- | ----- |
| Brown | Fox   |
```

| Title   | Item    |
| ------- | ------- |
| Item 01 | Item 02 |
| Item 03 | Itme    |

> > Speaker Notes
> > Let's talk about the extensions and how GFM is different.

One of the real popular features in GitHub is the ability to create task lists. You add square brackets to an existing list and it shows up as a checkbox. To show a completed item, you can add an x inside the brackets

You can also higlight text as been stricken by using double tilde characters.

GFM will also automatically try to make links you type in clickable. So if you use an http, https or www prefix, it will automatically convert them to links. Plus it will try to read email addresses and link those as well.

This format also gives you the ability to create tables, there is the simple format for doing so. It does take a bit of typing, you can always go to the tablesgenerator.com website and hit the markdown tab. If you have Visual Studio Code, You can also look for
